Words of Unity

As per the provided specification, Words of Unity is a 3D game. Though it uses an orthographic camera, giving it the appearance of a 2D game, the letters move like bubbles in 3D space (well, -ish, the z-axis is frozen). As it is currently implemented, each playthrough consists of a set of words taken from a few phrases from Bram Stoker's Dracula. These are presented to the player in sets of three words at most at any given time, depending on the length of the words. That is because a fair few of the words are two- or three-letter words and there needs to be a balance between the amount of letters on screen and the time it takes to clear the screen of letters. That, in turn, is because each word appears with its letters arranged on a perfect circle, with the first letter at 12 o'clock and the rest arranged clockwise. The radius of the circle is determined by the length of the word - all the letters must fit the circumference. This gives the player an idea of what word they have to form.

Each letter has bubble physics attached to it. That means that as the word appears, the letters begin to move in random directions. For a word to be acknowledged as properly formed, all the letters of the same word (and not similar letters of different words that may be on the screen) have to be arranged in a horizontally left-to-right ordered fashion. You can make any shape you like with them vertically, but the horizontal position of each letter must be in an increasing order for this to work. Also, you must have clicked and dragged at least one letter of the word, because the check function is triggered only on release of each letter. This may sound simple, but remember, the letters have bubble physics on them, moving in random directions, and in long words you might find yourself chasing them all over the place. Depending on the length of the word, each letter is frozen for a small period of time when you release it, which allows you to chase some other renegade letters. But before long, it will start moving again.

I believe the above approach satisfies somewhat the randomness requirement. If there were more time, I could have made the letters spawn in a random order, as an extra difficulty option. Also, the player could select the hidden message to decode from a list of available ones, save and resume his game, and keep high-scores (well, low-times really). Moreover, as it stands, the game is easily extensible for a time-attack mode, where you have a certain number of hitpoints and certain seconds to solve the words. Each second you save could be added to a deposit to be called upon if you need extra time. But that, I have not had time to do. I also thought of adding random bubbles with effects such as freeze area, slow time and paralyse (permanently freeze letters randomly, preventing them from having bubble physics until the end) as power-ups, but for the moment there isn't even a scoring system, except for the visual display of the time it took.

If the player does have the patience to decode the hidden message, he will hear it read out to him, if there is an available recording (I have used recordings from audible.co.uk for this). For the moment the game randomly chooses a text from the ones provided, but as this is done from an array of pre-assigned texts, it is very easy to add and remove texts for future releases.

Any questions, please let me know.

Cheers!
Euthyme

Oh - at any point the player may exit the game to the main menu (if in game) or quit the application (if on the main menu) by pressing Escape on the pc, or the back button on their device.